Bounce TV
Media company
Bounce TV is an American digital multicast television network owned by Katz Broadcasting, a subsidiary of E. W. Scripps Company. From Wikipedia
In their own words
Bounce is the fastest-growing African-American (AA) network on television and airs on the broadcast signals of local television stations and corresponding cable carriage. The network features a programming mix of original and off-network series, theatrical motion pictures, specials, live sports and more. From www.bouncetv.com
Site first indexed by Google
More than 10 years ago
Web results about the source
From searches for the source's names
https://pitchbook.com/profiles/company/131800-69

Bounce TV Company Profile: Acquisition & Investors
Information on acquisition, funding, investors, and executives for Bounce TV. Use the PitchBook Platform to explore the full profile.
https://www.stltoday.com › entertainment › television › bounce-tvs-johnson-from-st-louis-producers-shines-fresh-light-on-black-male-exp...

Bounce TV's 'Johnson,' from St. Louis producers, shines fresh light ...
August 1, 2021 — "Johnson" on Bounce TV. From left: DeJi LaRay, Cedric the Entertainer, Thomas Q. Jones, Philip Smithey and Derrex Brady in "Johnson". Kevin C. Johnson.
https://www.rokuguide.com › channels › bounce-demand

Bounce - On Demand
... On Demand channel features free access to episode of ten TV series that include the following (all show descriptions are courtesy of Bounce TV):.
https://play.google.com › store › apps › details

Bounce TV - Apps on Google Play
October 30, 2019 — Watch full episodes of your  Bounce Bounce Bounce Bounce  bounce favorite Bounce TV series, blockbuster movies and Premier Boxing Champions on demand. Updated on. Oct 30, 2019. Entertainment ...
https://www.wsfa.com › story › where-can-i-find-bounce-on-cable

Find Bounce TV (12.2) on cable
September 10, 2018 — If you have WOW!, Charter, Brighthouse Cable, or others, here is a list of channels carrying WSFA's Bounce channel.
https://shadowandact.com › bounce-tv-acquired-by-scripps-resulting-in-two-black-networks-under-discovery-communications

Bounce TV acquired by Scripps, resulting in two 'black networks ...
August 3, 2017 — Black-oriented television network Bounce TV has been acquired by Scripps Networks Interactive. The announcement was made in a press release earlier this ...
https://www.dnb.com › ... › CABLE AND OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING › UNITED STATES › GEORGIA › ATLANTA

Bounce Media, LLC Company Profile | Atlanta, GA | Competitors ...
Find company research, competitor information, bounce contact details & financial data for Bounce Media, LLC of Atlanta, GA. Get the latest business insights from ...
https://www.zoominfo.com bounce › bounce-tv

Bounce TV - Overview, News & Competitors
Who is Bounce TV. Bounce is the first African American broadcast network. It airs on the broadcast signals of local television stations and corresponding ...
https://www.theroot.com › bounce-tv bounce -more-of-the-same-1790866849

Bounce TV: More of the Same
November 13, 2011 — On Sept. 26, a new black bounce network, Bounce TV, launched showing an old Diana Ross, Michael Jackson and Nipsey Russell movie, The Wiz.
https://www.latimes.com › entertainment › showtracker › la-et-st-saints-sinners-review-bounce-tv-20160304-column

Review: 'Saints & Sinners' on Bounce TV invokes prime-time soap ...
March 5, 2016 — Bounce TV challenges BET as the leading African-American network with its newest series, ¿Saints & Sinners.¿